---
page_title: "apstra_datacenter_security_policy Data Source - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: "Reference Design: Shared"
description: |-
  This data source provides details of a specific Security Policy within a Datacenter Blueprint.
  At least one optional attribute is required.
---

# apstra_datacenter_security_policy (Data Source)

This data source provides details of a specific Security Policy within a Datacenter Blueprint.

At least one optional attribute is required.


## Example Usage

```terraform
# details of a security policy can be retrieved by ID or by name

# by id
data "apstra_datacenter_security_policy" "by_id" {
  blueprint_id = "a52fb4ff-b352-46a3-9141-820b40972133"
  id           = "K8g10S8W3oZIkRkBn0w"
}

# by name
data "apstra_datacenter_security_policy" "by_name" {
  blueprint_id = "a52fb4ff-b352-46a3-9141-820b40972133"
  name         = "my_policy"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `blueprint_id` (String) Apstra Blueprint ID.

### Optional

- `id` (String) Populate this field to look up a Security Policy by ID. Required when `name` is omitted.
- `name` (String) Populate this field to look up a Security Policy by name. Required when `id` is omitted.

### Read-Only

- `description` (String) Description of the Security Policy as seen in the Web UI.
- `destination_application_point_id` (String) Graph node ID of the destination Application Point (Virtual Network ID, Routing Zone ID, etc...)
- `enabled` (Boolean) Indicates whether the Security Policy is enabled.
- `rules` (Attributes List) List of Rules associated with the Security Policy. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rules))
- `source_application_point_id` (String) Graph node ID of the source Application Point (Virtual Network ID, Routing Zone ID, etc...)
- `tags` (Set of String) Set of Tags associated with the Security Policy.

<a id="nestedatt--rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rules`

Read-Only:

- `action` (String) Security Policy Rule Action; one of: deny, deny_log, permit, permit_log
- `description` (String) Security Policy Rule Description.
- `destination_ports` (Attributes Set) Set of TCP/UDP destination ports matched by this rule. A `null` set matches any port. Applies only when `protocol` is `tcp` or `udp`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rules--destination_ports))
- `established` (Boolean) When `true`, the rendered rule will use the NOS `established` or `tcp-established` keyword/feature for TCP access control list entries.
- `id` (String) Security Policy Rule ID.
- `name` (String) Security Policy Rule Name.
- `protocol` (String) Security Policy Rule Protocol; one of: 'icmp', 'ip', 'tcp', 'udp'
- `source_ports` (Attributes Set) Set of TCP/UDP source ports matched by this rule. A `null` set matches any port. Applies only when `protocol` is `tcp` or `udp`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rules--source_ports))

<a id="nestedatt--rules--destination_ports"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rules.destination_ports`

Read-Only:

- `from_port` (Number) First (low) port number in a range of ports matched by the policy rule.
- `to_port` (Number) Last (high) port number in a range of ports matched by the policy rule.


<a id="nestedatt--rules--source_ports"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rules.source_ports`

Read-Only:

- `from_port` (Number) First (low) port number in a range of ports matched by the policy rule.
- `to_port` (Number) Last (high) port number in a range of ports matched by the policy rule.
