---
page_title: "apstra_interface_map Data Source - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This data source provides details of a specific Interface Map.
  At least one optional attribute is required. It is incumbent on the user to ensure the criteria matches exactly one Interface Map. Matching zero Interface Maps or more than one Interface Map will produce an error.
---

# apstra_interface_map (Data Source)

This data source provides details of a specific Interface Map.

At least one optional attribute is required. It is incumbent on the user to ensure the criteria matches exactly one Interface Map. Matching zero Interface Maps or more than one Interface Map will produce an error.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# todo
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) Interface Map ID.  Required when the Interface Map name is omitted.
- `name` (String) Interface Map name displayed in the Apstra web UI.  Required when Interface Map ID is omitted.

### Read-Only

- `device_profile_id` (String) ID of Device Profile referenced by this interface map.
- `interfaces` (Attributes Set) Detailed mapping of each physical interface to its role in the logical device (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))
- `logical_device_id` (String) ID of Logical Device referenced by this interface map.

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Read-Only:

- `active` (Boolean) Indicates whether the interface is used by the Interface Map
- `mapping` (Attributes) Mapping info for each physical interface (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--mapping))
- `name` (String) Physical device interface name
- `position` (Number) todo - need to find out what this is
- `roles` (Set of String) Logical Device role ("connected to") of the interface.
- `setting` (String) Vendor specific commands needed to configure the interface, from the device profile.
- `speed` (String) Interface speed

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--mapping"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.mapping`

Read-Only:

- `device_profile_interface_id` (Number) Port-specific interface ID from the device profile (used to identify interfaces in breakout scenarios.)
- `device_profile_port_id` (Number) Port number(ID) from the Device Profile.
- `device_profile_transformation_id` (Number) Port-specific transform ID from the Device Profile.
- `logical_device_panel` (Number) Panel number (first panel is 1) of the Logical Device port which corresponds to this interface.
- `logical_device_panel_port` (Number) Port number (first port is 1) of the Logical Device port which corresponds to this interface.
