---
page_title: "apstra_asn_pool Resource - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: "Resource Pools"
description: |-
  This resource creates an ASN resource pool
---

# apstra_asn_pool (Resource)

This resource creates an ASN resource pool


## Example Usage

```terraform
# This example creates an ASN pool with two ranges.
resource "apstra_asn_pool" "rfc5398" {
  name = "RFC5398 ASNs"
  ranges = [
    {
      first = 64496
      last = 64511
    },
    {
      first = 65536
      last = 65551
    },
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Pool name displayed in the Apstra web UI
- `ranges` (Attributes Set) Ranges mark the begin/end AS numbers available from the pool (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ranges))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Apstra ID number of the pool
- `status` (String) Status of the ASN Pool. Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.
- `total` (Number) Total number of ASNs in the ASN Pool.
- `used` (Number) Count of used ASNs in the ASN Pool. Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.
- `used_percentage` (Number) Percent of used ASNs in the ASN Pool. Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.

<a id="nestedatt--ranges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranges`

Required:

- `first` (Number)
- `last` (Number)

Read-Only:

- `status` (String) Status of the ASN Pool Range, as reported by Apstra.Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.
- `total` (Number) Total number of ASNs in the ASN Pool Range.
- `used` (Number) Count of used ASNs in the ASN Pool Range.Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.
- `used_percentage` (Number) Percent of used ASNs in the ASN Pool Range.Note that this element is probably better read from a `data` source because it will be more up-to-date.
