---
page_title: "apstra_blueprint Resource - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource instantiates a Datacenter Blueprint from a template.
---

# apstra_blueprint (Resource)

This resource instantiates a `Datacenter` Blueprint from a template.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# todo
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Blueprint name.
- `template_id` (String) ID # of a rack-based, pod-based or L3-collapsed template. This parameter cannot be modified in place.

### Optional

- `access_asn_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the ASN Pool(s) to be used on access switches in blueprints featuring access switches concigured for `esi` redundancy mode.
- `access_esi_peer_link_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used on ESI LAG peer links between access switches.
- `access_loopback_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for access switch peer-link interfaces in blueprints featuring access switches concigured for `esi` redundancy mode.
- `leaf_asn_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the ASN Pool(s) to be used on leaf switches in blueprints built from `pod_based`, `rack_based` or `l3_collapsed` templates.
- `leaf_leaf_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for leaf/leaf fabric links in blueprints built from `l3_collapsed` templates.
- `leaf_loopback_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for leaf switch loopback interfaces in blueprints built from pod_based, rack_based or l3_collapsed templates.
- `leaf_mlag_peer_link_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used on MLAG peer links between leaf switches.
- `spine_asn_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the ASN Pool(s) to be used on spine switches in blueprints built from `pod_based` or `rack_based` templates.
- `spine_leaf_addressing` (String) Addressing scheme for spine/leaf links in a fabric built from a `pod_based` or `rack_based templates. Only applicable to Apstra versions 4.1.1 and later.
- `spine_leaf_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for superspine/spine fabric links in blueprints built from `pod_based` or `rack_based` templates.
- `spine_leaf_ip6_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for spine/leaf fabric links in blueprints built from `pod_based` or `pod_based` templates and using addressing mode `ipv6` or `ipv4_ipv6`.
- `spine_loopback_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for spine switch loopback interfaces in blueprints built from pod_based or rack_based templates.
- `superspine_asn_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the ASN Pool(s) to be used on superspine switches in blueprints built from `pod_based` templates.
- `superspine_loopback_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for superspine switch loopback interfaces in blueprints built from pod_based templates.
- `superspine_spine_addressing` (String) Addressing scheme for superspine/spine links in a fabric built from a `pod_based` template. Only applicable to Apstra versions 4.1.1 and later.
- `superspine_spine_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for superspine/spine fabric links in blueprints built from `pod_based` templates.
- `superspine_spine_ip6_pool_ids` (Set of String) ID(s) of the IPv4 Pool(s) to be used for superspine/spine fabric links in blueprints built from `pod_based` templates and using addressing mode `ipv6` or `ipv4_ipv6`.
- `switches` (Attributes Map) Map of switch info keyed by blueprint role (e.g., 'spine1', or '[a_esi_001_leaf1](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/apstra4.1/apstra-user-guide/images/blueprints/staged/physical/build1/resource_stage_401.png)' (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--switches))
- `vtep_ip4_pool_ids` (Set of String) Unclear what this is for.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Blueprint ID assigned by Apstra.
- `template_type` (String) Type (`pod_based`, `rack_based`, `l3_collapsed`) of the template specified by `template_id`.

<a id="nestedatt--switches"></a>
### Nested Schema for `switches`

Required:

- `device_key` (String) Unique ID for a device, generally the serial number.

Optional:

- `interface_map_id` (String) links a Logical Device (design element) to a Device Profile whichdescribes a hardware model. Optional when only a single interface map references the logical device underpinning the node in question.

Read-Only:

- `device_profile_id` (String) Device Profile
- `system_node_id` (String) ID number of the blueprint graphdb node representing this system.
