---
page_title: "apstra_datacenter_rack Resource - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: "Reference Design: Datacenter"
description: |-
  This resource creates a new Rack in a Datacenter Blueprint.
---

# apstra_datacenter_rack (Resource)

This resource creates a new Rack in a Datacenter Blueprint.


## Example Usage

```terraform
# This example creates a new rack based on an existing
# Rack Type (design object) in an existing blueprint.

resource "apstra_datacenter_rack" "r" {
  blueprint_id = "187458bf-7abf-450e-b341-d8da948bef9c"
  name         = "Rack_13"
  rack_type_id = "bq-lzzk6tmwc1redcw4rqg"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `blueprint_id` (String) Apstra ID of the Blueprint where the Rack should be created.
- `name` (String) Name of the Rack.
- `rack_type_id` (String) ID of the Global Catalog Rack Type design object to use as a template for this Rack.

### Optional

- `pod_id` (String) Graph node ID of Pod (3-stage topology) where the new rack should be created. Required only in Pod-Based (5-stage) Blueprints.
- `rack_elements_name_one_shot` (Boolean) Because this resource only manages the Rack, names of Systems and other embedded elements with names derived from the Rack name are not within this resource's control. When `true` during initial Rack creation, those elements will be renamed to match the `name` attribute. Subsequent changes to the `name` attribute will not affect those elements. It's a create-time operation only.
- `system_name_one_shot` (Boolean, Deprecated) Because this resource only manages the Rack, names of Systems defined within the Rack are not within this resource's control. When `system_name_one_shot` is `true` during initial Rack creation, Systems within the Rack will be renamed to match the rack's `name`. Subsequent modifications to the `name` attribute will not affect the names of those systems. It's a create-time one-shot operation.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Apstra graph node ID.



