---
page_title: "apstra_datacenter_routing_zone Resource - terraform-provider-apstra"
subcategory: "Reference Design: Datacenter"
description: |-
  This resource creates a Routing Zone within a Datacenter Blueprint.
---

# apstra_datacenter_routing_zone (Resource)

This resource creates a Routing Zone within a Datacenter Blueprint.


## Example Usage

```terraform
# This example creates a routing zone within an
# existing datacenter blueprint.
resource "apstra_datacenter_routing_zone" "blue" {
  name              = "vrf blue"
  blueprint_id      = "<blueprint-id-goes-here>"
  vlan_id           = 5                                     # optional
  vni               = 5000                                  # optional
  dhcp_servers      = ["192.168.100.10", "192.168.200.10"]  # optional
#  routing_policy_id = "<routing-policy-node-id-goes-here>" # optional
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `blueprint_id` (String) Apstra Blueprint ID.
- `name` (String) Name displayed in the Apstra web UI.

### Optional

- `dhcp_servers` (Set of String) Set of DHCP server IPv4 or IPv6 addresses of DHCP servers.
- `export_route_targets` (Set of String) Used to export routes from the EVPN VRF.
- `import_route_targets` (Set of String) Used to import routes into the EVPN VRF.
- `junos_evpn_irb_mode` (String) Symmetric IRB Routing for EVPN on Junos devices makes use of an L3 VNI for inter-subnet routing which is embedded into EVPN Type2-routes to support better scaling for networks with large amounts of VLANs. Applicable only to Apstra 4.2.0+. When omitted, Routing Zones in Apstra 4.2.0 and later will be configured with mode `asymmetric`.
- `routing_policy_id` (String) Non-EVPN blueprints must use the default policy, so this field must be null. Set this attribute in an EVPN blueprint to use a non-default policy.
- `vlan_id` (Number) Used for VLAN tagged Layer 3 links on external connections. Leave this field blank to have it automatically assigned from a static pool in the range of 2-4094, or enter a specific value.
- `vni` (Number) VxLAN VNI associated with the routing zone. Leave this field blank to have it automatically assigned from an allocated resource pool, or enter a specific value.

### Read-Only

- `had_prior_vlan_id_config` (Boolean) Used to trigger plan modification when `vlan_id` has been removed from the configuration, this attribute can be ignored.
- `had_prior_vni_config` (Boolean) Used to trigger plan modification when `vni` has been removed from the configuration, this attribute can be ignored.
- `id` (String) Apstra graph node ID.
- `vrf_name` (String) VRF name. Copied from the `name` field on initial create.



